We talk about churches, we pray for churches, we're excited about church, we're grateful for Calvary Church, but we also have to acknowledge that a lot of us here this morning have suffered church hurt.
What we mean by church hurt is those times when individuals in churches or even churches collectively have acted not in love and not with the spirit
And as a result, we've been wounded by that.
Many of us here this morning could tell stories of the hurts we've experienced at the hands of the church.
It happens to congregants.
Church hurt happens to staff.
It happens to elders.
It happens to people who are older.
It happens to people who are younger.
It can happen to people who are new to the faith.
It can happen to people who have been around the faith for a long, long time.
You said, last week we said that the whole world is under the control of the evil one, but the church is not.
But that doesn't mean that Satan doesn't have any influence in the church.
That there are opportunities where he comes in and whether it's an individual congregant or group of congregants being divisive and discouraging.
Whether it's staff members or people in positions of leadership and authority being abusive or being deceptive.
Whether it's his influence in the leadership in the elders or in the whole, can what can be toxic church culture.
There are ways in which Satan gets in through our poor choices and causes hurts to happen.
The hurts that happen through a church are especially painful because they feel like a betrayal.
They feel like this is supposed to be the place where Satan is not.
This is supposed to be the place where Jesus is Lord.
When you are hurt by a church, it feels especially wounding.
Like a great betrayal.
The whole world is under the control of the evil one, but that is not supposed to be the case in the church.
In fact,
of the church, the one institution in all the world of which God Himself has said, the gates of hell will not prevail against it.
Like in a world that is under the control of Satan, this is the place that Jesus is Lord.
And so this morning in full acknowledgment that Satan has and does.
use individual churches, people in churches to do great harm, that this is not God's plan for the church, that God has something different for us today, that he can, does, and will work through the church to be a light in our lives and in this dark world.
And so this morning we have an opportunity to remind ourselves of what is God's plan for who we are.
and what we're doing.
Let me invite you to take a Bible and turn to the book of 2nd John.
2nd John is a little letter all the way near the end of the Bible.
It's page 989 in the church's Bibles.
They're in the rack in front of you.
2nd John is just 13 verses long.
If you come this week and next week, you will have covered an entire book of the Bible.
I get to preach half a book of the Bible today.
Second John, page 989, we're going to look this morning at the first six verses, so the first half.
John writes, the elder, to the lady chosen by God and to her children, whom I love in the truth, and not I only, but also all who know the truth,
because of the truth which lives in us and will be with us forever.
Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son will be with us in truth and love.
It has given me great joy to find some of your children walking in the truth just as the Father commanded us.
And now, dear lady, I am not writing you a new command,
but one we have had from the beginning.
I asked that we love one another, and this is love that we walk in obedience to His commands.
As you have heard from the beginning, His command is that you walk in love.
Now for the more discerning listeners out there, you might be wondering, I thought we were gonna be talking about the church.
Isn't that what the whole introduction was about?
This is a letter to some lady.
Why are we talking about the church when this letter is written to a lady?
Well, there are some people who think that the letter of 2 John is written to a specific female and her biological or adoptive children.
I don't think that's what 2 John who that's written to.
I think the lady being referred to here, this is a metaphor for the church.
A local church, one just like Calvary Church, a gathering of people might have been large, might have been small, but this is a message from God to us today.
Let me give you six reasons why the lady here is not a singular female woman, but instead the church and her children, which is us, those who are a part of the church.
Six reasons why this is not a woman, but a church.
Number one, she's unnamed.
When we write letters in the Bible to people, Philemon, Titus, Timothy, when they're written to somebody, they get named.
This lady doesn't have a name.
She's just simply the lady.
Second reason, look over at verse 13, the last verse of this little letter.
John says, the children of your sister who is chosen by God send their greetings.
It's far more likely that John is talking about a sister church that he's writing from than he is talking about this woman's biological sister and her nieces and nephews.
Number three, John writes the letter and says it's from him as the elder.
That's a church position.
He's writing as the elder to a local church.
Number four, look at the pronoun usage in verse five, for example.
And now, dear lady, I'm not writing you a new command, but one we have had from the beginning, I ask that we love one another.
He doesn't say I ask that you love one another as if this was a singular individual.
He's saying we as the church, we should love one another.
Number five, the second half of the letter, which we're not covering this week, but we will next week, talks about false teachers.
And the idea we should not welcome false teachers into our house.
It's far more likely that John means don't welcome false teachers into the church than that he's telling a specific woman, hey, don't have some false teachers over for dinner.
And then number six, do you see the, and now verse five, dear lady,
The word for lady in Greek, let's translate a lady, is the word korea.
It's the feminine form of the masculine noun korias, which means Lord.
Whenever Jesus is referred to as Lord in the New Testament, it's the word korias.
Here, this word is korea, it's a feminine form of that.
This is way too high a title for a particular female.
What John is referencing here is this powerful point is that Jesus, who is Kuryas, is married to so to speak his bride, which is the church, which is Kurya, that collectively together we have Kuryas,
and Korea, we have Jesus and his church, and what is being pictured is that you and I, who are part of this local church, in some ways we are the offspring of Jesus and his church.
Now, if that sounds too Roman Catholic for some, look at this quote from John Calvin, who nobody has ever accused of being Roman Catholic.
John Calvin says, no one can have God as his father who does not have the church as his mother.
No one can have God as his father who does not have the church as his mother.
You see as a side note to this sort of last point.
There's lots of people in this world who are like, I like Jesus, but I'm not interested in the church.
Or I'm good with Jesus, but I don't wanna hang out with church people.
Jesus is not good with that.
The church is his bride.
We are the offspring of Jesus and the church.
No one can have God as their father who does not have the church as his mother.
And if you think that somehow Jesus is glad when we say, love you Jesus, hate your bride.
We're mistaken.
And the idea is that Jesus set it up this way that in order to engage with Him, we do it in connection with a local church like Calvary, like this church.
This is what's so powerful about the way John is writing this.
He says, I'm writing to the woman, the lady, the chorea, the church and her children.
All right.
Back to 2 John.
This is a letter to the local church.
What does God have to say to us?
Verse 4, it has given me great joy to find some of your children walking in the truth just as the Father commanded us.
Notice John says, some of your children.
all of your children.
We began the sermon by talking about church hurt.
This is John's veiled way of acknowledging that, of his acknowledgement that there are some in the church who are not walking in the truth.
Romans 7 talks about the fact that there are some in the church who are powerless against sin in their life.
In 1 John 1, it talks about the fact that all of us are sinners, and that as a result, we all need to regularly be confessing to the Lord our sins.
It's those sins that cause that hurt.
Jesus tells a parable in Matthew 13 about the church, and He says in the parable, it's like a field.
We're like a field.
And in the field are growing wheat and weeds.
And the weeds are incredibly destructive.
And so the disciples in the story are like, hey, why don't we pull up all the weeds so they don't harm the plants?
And Jesus says, not yet.
And the implication is, is that while we're waiting for Jesus to return, that in all churches, there are going to be weeds.
And those weeds cause harm.
John is acknowledging, subtly, that not everybody
in a local church is walking in the truth.
As a result, we experience hurt and pain.
We experience wounding and harm.
But the thing I love about what John has done here is he's not focused on those who aren't walking in the truth.
He's focused on the fact that there are some who are walking in the truth.
that in every church where the Spirit is present, there will always be some who are walking in the truth.
And this gives him great joy.
Of course, we want everyone to be walking in the truth.
But John is saying, look, there are some we can rejoice in that.
The idea is that if you're in a relationship
whether you're married to somebody or it's a friendship or a parent-child relationship or whatever it may be.
If all you do is focus on the problems in that relationship, all the things that the other person has done wrong, you're not gonna have much of a relationship.
If you do that with the church, you will find plenty of sinners in the church.
You will find plenty of hurt in the church.
And we are not in any way minimizing that.
But John is showing us, there's also plenty of good in the church.
There also are a lot of people who are trying to live out the truth.
And that can cause us to rejoice.
So what I want you to do this morning is just in your own mind, this is a quiet exercise that just you're gonna do, you're not gonna share this with anybody.
Just for a minute, I want you to think of somebody else in this church.
They could be in this service, they could be in a different service, they might be online, somebody that you know of connected with Calvary Church.
It could be somebody you came with, but it'd be really great if you thought of somebody that you didn't come with.
Can you think of anybody in this church that you think is walking in the truth?
They're not perfect, but they're trying.
You feel Jesus in them, they're trying to live this out.
Can you in your own mind think of the name of somebody in this church that you're like, yeah, no, they're trying to walk in the truth.
Take a second, think of somebody.
You got a name?
All right.
Can you think of another person now?
So set that name aside for me.
Can you think of another person?
You can look around if you need to.
Can you think of another person that's walking in the truth?
How about a third?
Can you come up with a third person?
Somebody you know connected to Calvary Church that you're like, you know what?
That's a pretty godly man or that's a pretty godly woman or that's a pretty godly young person that's really they're trying to live out their face.
Now if you can't think of anybody, I think that's probably a sign that maybe we want to get you more connected.
There are a lot of people here.
And so just an encouragement after the service and the sort of the crosswalk in the back, there'll be tables set up.
Because if you're just sort of here and you're just coming up, there are, I can see them.
There are a lot of people here that I know are walking with the truth.
And if you don't know some of those people, we'd love to introduce you to them.
But for those of you who could think of a name or three names, let me ask you this question.
Aren't you glad to be going to church with such people?
Aren't you grateful when you look around and go, you know what?
The whole world's under the control of the evil one, but I get to go to church with him or with her or I get to know these people and they're trying.
They're serious about prayer.
They're trying to live this out.
They're serious about God's word.
They're trying to do what's right.
They're sharing the gospel.
Yeah, they're not perfect, but they're a godly person.
That's what John is saying is, look, there are some
who are children of the church who are walking in the truth and we should rejoice at that.
What an amazing thing that in a world that is under the control of the evil one, that you can go anywhere and find some people walking in the truth.
And the darker and darker our world gets the more and more grateful I am that on Sunday morning or Wednesday night or Monday night or Tuesday afternoon, I can come and be with you.
and that there are people here, lots of them, hundreds of them, thousands of them.
None of us perfect, but we're trying.
And John was like, that's worth rejoicing.
John has two things to say to us as the church, two commands in verses five and six.
Verse five, first command, and now dear lady, I am not writing you a new command.
But one we have had from the beginning, I ask that we love one another.
This is a command from God to Calvary as a local church.
And what he's saying to us as a church is what he wants from us is to love each other.
There's a second command in verse six, it's related, but it's slightly different.
So let me try to explain the difference.
In verse five, John is saying that we should love each other in Calvary.
meaning we should love other people at Calvary.
We're gonna talk about loving others outside of Calvary in verse six, but verse five is us showing love to one another in this church.
How do you do that?
Well, there's a million different ways.
Let me just give you a couple this morning that we can think through together.
The first comes from first Peter 4a.
In first Peter 4a, it says, above all, love each other deeply
because love covers over a multitude of sins.
We've talked about church hurt, which is very real.
Let me just say that when someone sins against you in this church, when someone offends you, when someone says something to hurt your feelings, when someone excludes you from something that you should be invited to, when somebody does something that is harmful to you, when someone's selfish motives result in you being hurt, you have a couple of choices as to what to do.
Your first choice is what Matthew 18 says.
You can go to the person who sinned against you and you can tell them that they've sinned against you.
That's a very valid option.
It's a godly option.
It's very much from the spirit.
In that option, Jesus says, hey, look, if somebody hurts you in the church, which is sadly what Jesus says will happen.
When that happens, you have the option to go to them and say,
Hey, you've sinned against me, you harmed me, you did this thing to me.
If they don't listen, you're supposed to take a couple of other people with you to say, hey, this is important, pay attention.
If they don't listen to them, then you're supposed to turn it over to us, to the authorities in the church, the elders, and we're supposed to deal with.
That is a very valid option.
Can you put first Peter?
Yeah, thanks, back up there.
But there is a second option.
And that's what 1 Peter's talking about.
When someone sins against you, when someone harms you, when someone says something that they shouldn't have said, when someone treats you less well than you should be treated, when they exclude you, when they avoid you, when their greed or selfishness hurts you, 1 Peter 4 says, you have another option.
You can simply let love cover over the sin.
You can just simply be like, hey, you know what?
I'm not perfect either.
In your own heart, you can simply pray.
And that's the God would forgive them.
You can decide, you know what?
I don't really want to make a big deal out of this.
I'd like to try to live in peace.
I'd like to let love cover a multitude of sins.
Now, quick side note, it's the person who's harmed that chooses 1 Peter 4.8.
If you're the person who did the harming,
You don't get to say, hey, let's let love cover multitude of sins.
But the reason why I'm saying this is Matthew 18 is absolutely valid.
It's from the Lord.
It's definitely useful and it's needed.
John's gonna talk about false teachers in the second half of the letter.
We do have to deal with sin.
But if a church, all a church does is Matthew 18, if we spend all of our time litigating all of these cases,
There's so much sin in the church and we spend all of our days sitting down with each individual who might have harmed us that doesn't make for a very healthy church.
One of the ways we love one another is we let some stuff slide.
And we think, you know what?
They probably didn't mean that as meanly as it came across.
You know what?
They may have just forgotten to include me.
Or you know what?
What they meant for evil?
God's going to use for good.
I don't have to make a big deal out of this.
So 1 Peter 4a is another way or is a way that we can show love to each other in the church.
Sometimes Matthew 18 is absolutely the right thing to do and the spirit says that's what I want.
Sometimes 1 Peter 4a is the right thing to do and the spirit says this is what I would like.
A second way that we can love one another
is what Sophie did for us this morning.
She got baptized.
Now lots of people, when it's time to get baptized, feel nervous about getting up in front of everybody.
I mean, really the baptismal is hanging like 30 feet in the air.
It can be scary.
You look out and you see a whole bunch of people and you think, well, why can't I just kind of do this myself in my bathtub?
or go out to Lake Michigan and while no one's looking, jump off the side of the boat into the water and be like, I'm good, I'm baptized.
We do it this way out of love.
You need to hear Sophie's testimony.
We need to be, you were blessed by that, weren't you?
I was.
You listen to that and you think, man, I love Jesus more now because I see how Jesus treated her.
And so we do this out of love for each other.
And I know lots of you might be like, I'm kind of scared to this.
Yeah, most people are, we get scared to get up in front of people and be vulnerable and to share our story.
But we do it first out of love for God because he commanded it.
But secondly, out of love for each other, this is a tangible way that we show love to each other is through the waters of baptism.
So there are a million more examples, but these are just two.
of what John is talking about when he says, look, if you want to be a church that is walking in the truth, if you want to be a church where love is reigning overall, then choose to love one another.
Second command in verse six is related, but slightly different.
This is love, verse six, that we walk in obedience to his commands, as you have heard from the beginning, his command is that you, meaning us, walk in love.
To understand how verse 6 and verse 5 fit together, there's a parallel, slight parable, to what Jesus says when He tells us to love your neighbor as yourself.
In that command, there's actually two parts.
You love your neighbor as you love yourself.
The implications, you do need to love yourself and love your neighbor.
that if you have self-loathing, if you hate yourself, if you refuse to acknowledge that you are worthy of love, that makes it difficult to love your neighbor.
Likewise in verse five, what John is saying is that we should love ourselves.
We should love each other in the church so that we are equipped to love others outside of the church.
Our neighbors, that's verse six.
So verse five is about you and I loving each other in Calvary.
Verse six is about we as Calvary loving others collectively.
Verse five is love in the church.
Verse six is love as the church.
For example, during this season of Lent, we collectively as a church, and you're like, well, I didn't choose this, you're submitting to what we collectively as a church are doing,
have chosen to dedicate this Lenten season to sharing Jesus with others.
Of course, you can do it by yourself, but when we do it collectively over these next several weeks, this is an opportunity for us as a church to love the world in which we live, that the whole world's under the control of the evil one.
They need Jesus.
Well, guess what?
We have him.
We're his bride.
And we pray for other people.
That's why we've asked you, hey, look, just pick one or two or three or four people and pray for them by name.
You might not be an evangelist.
You might not feel comfortable just walking up to somebody and talking to them.
You might not have the kind of personality where you want to just sit down with someone and say, hey, let me tell you about Jesus.
That's okay.
But can you just pray every day?
Can you just pick one or two or three or four names?
Can you pray that God might give an opportunity for you to be able to just
mention Jesus, mention God, do something loving.
We're doing this collectively as a church.
At the end, we'll talk about the fact that you can sort of text in those names.
We're gonna pray for those people with you because we're doing this collectively because 2nd John 6 says that we as a church collectively should do things together.
So we're doing this during Lent.
I also think about our Jerusalem Project.
We talk about the Jerusalem Project here a lot.
But back in September, we planted a church in Ada called Frontier Church.
We did that because, maybe hard to believe, Ada is under the control of the evil one.
And in order to fight back that darkness, God led us to plant another church in Ada.
Now, a lot of the people that are there are friends of ours.
They're people who we used to go to church with, who we don't get to see as much.
The reason why we did this is because we want to love Ada.
We want to love Grand Rapids.
We want to see light and not darkness.
We have residents here at Calvary.
These are people that may not ever be on staff full-time at Calvary, but we're doing this out of love for the wider church and for the wider community.
How do we train up people and then send them out to be a blessing?
I think of the Jonathan Fund.
The Jonathan Fund is one of the four ways we sort of do some extra giving at Calvary.
And we focus on the Jonathan Fund during the season of Lent.
What the Jonathan Fund is, as it comes from the Old Testament story of Jonathan and David, and Jonathan befriends David at a very difficult time in David's life.
And he comes alongside of him and he helps him emotionally.
Go through this difficult time.
The Jonathan Fund is a fund that we administer here at Calvary Church.
Now it is for people at Calvary, but we're doing it collectively.
And it's not need-based
It's emotion-based.
If someone is going through a time of suffering, if they're just really in the middle of it, it's an opportunity for us as a church collectively to show love to that person to say, hey, we got this for you.
We've arranged this for you.
We're paying for this for you because we want you to know that you're seen and that you're loved and that you're not forgotten.
I think about the prison ministry that we do at Calvary Church.
Some of you may never have done ministry in a prison, but guess what?
We have done ministry in a prison sharing the gospel with others.
That's the power of doing things collectively.
We're able to do more together than we can individually.
I think about our disability ministry.
If you have loved and cared for a person with a disability, that's a beautiful thing.
But there's also something powerful when collectively, as a church, we provide respite care.
We provide worship opportunities.
We give opportunities for those with disabilities to be able to participate and contribute in part of this church.
That's a beautiful thing.
That's John, 2nd John, verse 6.
What are we doing collectively?
In a couple of weeks.
Lord willing, there'll be somebody from the Middle East.
who will be our speaker on that morning for Global Mission Sunday, and he'll tell us about amazing stuff God is doing in the Middle East, and that Calvary is a small part of that.
You may know that a good portion of our resources as a church go to Global Missions to spreading the gospel around the world because we believe that if we're going to be light, the whole world's under the control of the evil one, it's our job to try to spread that light by loving those who may be culturally and ethnically different than us.
And we do that around the world.
We also love the city of Grand Rapids by renting out this facility for Christians and non-Christians to use.
Now, we do have to charge a fee because there are costs associated with it.
But one of the things is we don't ask groups to say, hey, look, will you sign on to our doctrinal statement?
Do you believe ever?
Lots of people who rent this facility don't even believe in Jesus at all.
You're like, well, why let them use the building?
Because this is a gift from God to us.
And when we share this with others, we're sharing the love of Jesus with others.
We want them to know, hey, look, this isn't a scary place.
You can come here.
And if you came here for a high school graduation, maybe you'd come here for church.
This is a way that we as a church are collectively showing love.
That's what John is talking about.
Obviously, I could go on with more and more examples.
But here's the point.
Church hurt is a very real thing.
Satan does get in the mix.
And whether it's a toxic church culture, whether it's a particular individual, whether it's an abuse of power, whether it's some form of deception, divisiveness, discouragement, false teaching, it is true that many, many people have been harmed by the church.
But John,
is reminding us that there's also a lot of people in the church who are walking in love.
There's also a lot of people who are walking in the truth, that there are local churches that John's writing to, that Jesus is writing to today in Grand Rapids, lots of them that are light and truth.
And part of the reason why Satan
is not free to do in this world and in this country anything he wants to do is because God is placing outposts of light everywhere.
And the darkness cannot overcome the light because Jesus is building his church and the gates of hell cannot prevail against it.
And the letter of 2 John is a reminder.
that although the church does do some things that are painful, that if you focus only on the wrongs and the sins and the difficulties, you're gonna end up missing something really, really important.
And the thing that's really, really important is that there is great cause for rejoicing, because some are walking in the truth.
Some are choosing to love their neighbor.
Some churches, most churches, are working to be lights in this community and around the world.
And this little letter, tucked away at the end of the Bible, is a reminder.
No one can have God as their father who does not have the churches their mother.
And that Jesus has shown himself to be faithful.
That even though Satan, sin,
and this world seem infinitely powerful, that we can rejoice, that Jesus is building his church, that hell is not prevailing against it, and that when you look around, there is lots and lots to rejoice about.